Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And today we will continue with the analysis of the demographical segmentation of our member base or
customer base for this bank.
So here we've got the gender chart that we created previously.
It's a pie chart.
And by the way with pie charts people don't really like them.
In analytics and musicians and that is the case when you have like more than three or four elements
to a pie chart gets very clever.
In this case we only have two male and female so I think it's OK to create a pie chart but it's up to
you.
You're more than welcome to substitute with this.
This for different visualization.
If you think a pie chart pie charts not the best way to go here.
So we're going to change the name here to gender and we're going to create a new tab and this time we're
looking at Age.
So this is going to be interesting because we have age here and we want we want to see how many people
there how our member base is distributed across this age across the different.
So if we take age and get dragged into columns and you see take some of age right away but if we change
this from a measure to a dimension so whoops not an attribute or dimension.
So basically disaggregated and take a number of records and drag it into Rose.
You'll see this curved line here.
So it's basically telling us how many people they are in for each individual age.
So for 35 years old there's 163 people for 36 years old is 183 people and so on.
And but this is not exactly what we want and even if we changed.
Not really what we're looking for we don't want every single age demonstrated here Imagine if our ages
weren't given in integers soak in whole numbers what if they were given in floats or doubles.
So basically if we had in our database in our data sets.
I'll just go here today said if our daughter said we didn't have twenty one twenty one point five and
thirty four point three and thirty point four and so on this it wouldn't work.
This doesn't look as good but it wouldn't work even as good as this so we need to do something about
it.
And this is where we talk about creating bins and basically breaking up our ages into different groups
so five.
Let's say for instance five year bans from 15 to 20 from 20 to 25 and so on and seen how all membership
is distributed across those bands.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Very it's very simple to create beings or groups for a variable in Tablo.
So as long as it's a measure basically it's a numerical variable.
All we have to do is you have to right click on the variable that you want to create bins for and then
you go to create.
And Ukraine builds.
Simple as that and size of bins in our case it's going to be five because we want five year bans and
we'll leave it as age been.
Click OK and as you can imagine age bin goes into dimensions because now it's no longer a numerical
variable it is a categorical variable.
We've broken up our data into categories and now we take age bin and drag it into columns and we take
total number of records or number records and Dragon rows we get a beautiful distribution which tells
us how a member base is distributed across five year bands.
So in 15 to 20 so 15 is inclusive 20 is not inclusive in 15 to 20.
There's 54 pick up 50 for me.
50 for customers 20 to 25.
There's 108 to customers and 400 to one and so on.
If you want to you can add the if you press and hold control and you drag some number Records label
you'll get the number at the top.
But we don't want the number at the top right now.
What we want is we want to change this to a table calculation and it is useful sometimes in a distribution
to know the total.
So how many in total people there were in a certain age band.
But what we want right now is we want a percentage and why we want a percentage Why did we not curious
about the total is because this chart is going to work together with our map in a dashboard and I'll
map already has a totals so I'll map already has the absolute number and that's why we changed gender
to a percentage and that's why we're going to change this to a percentage as well because we don't really
need to know the total twice.
We don't need to know it in the map and in the breakdown that's more useful here to know the percentage.
So we're going to click this drop down as we did previously.
Quick table calculations and here will do percentage of total.
And boy right away it has changed from a absolute figure to the percentage of total.
So what we want now is we want to hide this label at the top edge.
We don't need this.
We want to change the name of the chart to age distribution or distribution by age probably better by
age and now in our worksheet we want to format it so free right.
Oh actually first we're going to change this edit access and here percentage of total number of records.
Percentage of customers.
And now we want to right click on anywhere in the chart click Format and we will change this to keep
it consistent 12 and black or dark bold and to finish off what we're going to do is we will take some
number of records which is a percentage and drag it into color.
So now we can see the dark blue.
And there you go we've got a beautiful distribution here.
Ready to go into our dashboard which will create very very soon.
That's all for today.
I look forward to seeing you next time when we will continue with our analysis of the segmentation.
And until next time happy idolising.